{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Consolas;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green112\blue192;\red192\green0\blue0;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang1033

\b\fs28 User Manual\b0\fs22\par
\b Salesforce Multi-Sheet Import\b0\par
\par
Django application to import data into Salesforce from a multi-sheet Excel file, with Session ID authentication and automatic ID replication across sheets.\par
\par

\b\fs24 1. TOOL PURPOSE\b0\fs22\par
\par
This tool imports data in bulk from an Excel file (.xlsx or .xls) into Salesforce. It handles:\par
\bullet  Multiple related sheets (e.g. Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities)\par
\bullet  ID replication across sheets (e.g. AccountId on Contacts after Accounts import)\par
\bullet  Configuration via a _Config_ sheet in the Excel file\par
\par
No Salesforce Connected App is required: Session ID connection is sufficient.\par
\par

\b\fs24 2. INSTALLATION\b0\fs22\par
\par

\b 2.1 Prerequisites\b0\par
\bullet  Python 3.9 or higher\par
\bullet  pip\par
\par

\b 2.2 Install dependencies\b0\par
\f1 pip install -r requirements.txt\par
\f0\par

\b 2.3 Migrations and launch\b0\par
\f1 python manage.py migrate\par
python manage.py runserver\par
\f0\par
Open \cf1 http://localhost:8000/\cf0\par
\par

\b\fs24 3. SALESFORCE CONNECTION\b0\fs22\par
\par
Click "Salesforce Login" in the menu.\par
\par
\b Option 1 - Bookmarklet:\b0 Drag the "Retrieve my session" link to your bookmarks. On a Salesforce page (e.g. /services/data/), click it to retrieve the instance URL and Session ID.\par
\par
\b Option 2 - Manual entry:\b0 Open a Visualforce page displaying \f1 \{!$Api.Session_ID\}\f0 , or use Developer Console: Execute Anonymous - \f1 System.debug(UserInfo.getSessionId());\f0\par
\par
\cf2 Important: Lightning does not provide a Session ID usable for the API. Use a Visualforce page in preview mode.\cf0\par
\par

\b\fs24 4. EXPLORER VIEW\b0\fs22\par
\par
The Explorer provides a full interface:\par
\bullet  \b Left tree:\b0 File content (sheets), Configuration, Preview\par
\bullet  \b Central panel:\b0 Content of the selected item\par
\bullet  \b Select file:\b0 Load an existing Excel file\par
\bullet  \b Create file:\b0 Generate a template file from Salesforce objects\par
\par
\b 4.1 Right-click on Configuration\b0\par
\bullet  Start new configuration: reset everything\par
\bullet  Add sheet: modal to create a new sheet\par
\bullet  Export configuration and sheets\par
\bullet  Graphic view: display mappings as a diagram\par
\par
\b 4.2 Right-click on a sheet (treeview)\b0\par
\bullet  Add child sheet\par
\bullet  Rename this sheet\par
\bullet  Delete this sheet\par
\par
\b 4.3 Graphic view\b0\par
Each sheet is a card. Arrows connect related fields (mappings).\par
\bullet  Right-click on a field: Add/Remove pivot columns, Set arrow start/end, Delete arrow\par
\bullet  Right-click on a card: Delete this sheet\par
\bullet  Drag the header to move, bottom-right corner to resize\par
\par

\b\fs24 5. EXCEL FILE STRUCTURE\b0\fs22\par
\par
The \f1 _Config_\f0 sheet contains:\par
\par
\b SheetOrder:\b0\par
(empty) | SheetName | Order | SalesforceObject | IdColumn | Mode | UpsertField\par
| Accounts | 1 | Account | Id | insert |\par
| Contacts | 2 | Contact | Id | insert |\par
\par
\b Mappings:\b0\par
(empty) | SourceSheet | SourceColumn | TargetSheet | TargetColumn | SalesforceField\par
| Accounts | RefExternal | Contacts | RefAccount | AccountId\par
\par
\b PivotColumns:\b0\par
Columns NOT imported (used only for mapping).\par
(empty) | Sheet | Column\par
| Contacts | RefAccount\par
\par

\b\fs24 6. USAGE\b0\fs22\par
\par
1. Load an Excel file (or create one)\par
2. Configure sheets, mappings and pivot columns via the interface or the _Config_ sheet\par
3. Preview the data\par
4. Connect to Salesforce and run the import\par
\par
After import, Salesforce IDs are replicated to the linked columns.\par
\par

\b\fs24 7. TROUBLESHOOTING\b0\fs22\par
\par
\b Invalid session:\b0 Use a Visualforce page in preview mode, not Lightning.\par
\par
\b Column not imported:\b0 Add it as PivotColumn or as TargetColumn in a mapping.\par
\par
\b Error on rows:\b0 Check required fields and data types in Salesforce.\par
\par
\par
}
